{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 # DSP ObjectList AutoUpdater \emdash  User Guide (v1.2)\par
\par
Author: DSP PM Team\par
Version: 1.2\par
\par
## PURPOSE\par
\par
Automate building and maintaining DSP ObjectLists from Active Directory using a JSON policy.\par
v1.2 adds **Scope.Exclude** and expands operator support. No runtime behavior changes after the AD query.\par
\par
1. WHAT YOU GET IN THE ZIP\par
\par
---\par
\par
DSPObjectListAutoUpdater\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   DSPObjectListAutoUpdater.ps1        (Main runner)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   README\\_v1.2\\_UserGuide.rtf           (This document)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2\par
\f1\u9500?\u9472?\f2 Config\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   ExamplePolicy\\_\\*.json                (Ready-to-use sample policies)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2\par
\f1\u9500?\u9472?\f2 Modules\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   Logging.ps1\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   Utilities.ps1                       (validators, helpers; v1.2 operators)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   Policy.ps1                          (load/validate/summary)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   QueryAD.ps1                         (queries AD; supports Scope.Exclude)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   DSPUpdate.ps1                       (list sync, 10K cap, CSV pipeline)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   Snapshot.ps1                        (result + snapshot writers)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2   TaskScheduler.ps1                   (idempotent scheduled task)\par
\f1\u9474?\f2\par
\f1\u9500?\u9472?\f2 Logs\\                                (Created at runtime)\par
\f1\u9500?\u9472?\f2 Snapshots\\                           (Created at runtime)\par
\f1\u9492?\u9472?\f2 Results\\                             (Created at runtime)\par
\par
2. REQUIREMENTS\par
\par
---\par
\par
\f0\bullet  Windows PowerShell 5.1\par
\bullet  RSAT ActiveDirectory (Get-ADObject, Get-ADDomain, etc.)\par
\bullet  Semperis.Posh.DSP module available on the runner host\par
\bullet  Network access to your DSP server (defaults to \ldblquote localhost\rdblquote ) and Domain Controllers\par
\bullet  Permissions:\par
\endash  Read access in AD to query targeted containers/OUs\par
\endash  Rights in DSP to create/update ObjectLists and modify membership\par
\endash  Local admin if you want the tool to create/update a Scheduled Task\par
\par
3. FLOW (WHAT THE RUNNER DOES)\par
\par
---\par
\par
1. Load & validate the policy (v1.2 schema).\par
2. Build an LDAP filter from Filters + Logic.\par
3. Query AD across the defined Scope; apply **Scope.Exclude**.\par
4. De-duplicate objects by GUID.\par
5. Ensure the DSP ObjectList exists (create if needed).\par
6. Sync membership (remove first, then add) with a **10,000** member cap.\par
7. Write artifacts:\par
   \bullet  Logs\\Run\\_<RUNID>*<UTC>.log\par
   \bullet  Results\\FullADResults*<Classes>*<RUNID>*<UTC>.json\par
   \bullet  Snapshots\\Snapshot\\_<ListName>*<Classes>*<RUNID>\\_<UTC>.json\par
8. If Schedule present, create/update a Windows Scheduled Task (SYSTEM, silent).\par
\par
4) QUICK START\par
\par
---\par
\par
4.1 Place a policy\par
Copy one of the `Config\\ExamplePolicy_*.json` files and edit it for your domains/OUs.\par
\par
4.2 Manual run (one-shot)\par
Open an elevated PowerShell 5.1 in the tool folder:\par
.\\DSPObjectListAutoUpdater.ps1 -Policy ".\\Config\\ExamplePolicy\\_ServiceAccounts.json"\par
\par
4.3 Scheduled run (automatic)\par
If the policy includes \ldblquote Schedule\rdblquote  and \ldblquote TaskName\rdblquote , the script creates/updates a scheduled task:\par
.\\DSPObjectListAutoUpdater.ps1 -Policy ".\\Config\\YourPolicy.json"\par
\par
5. POLICY (v1.2) \emdash  SCHEMA\par
\par
---\par
\par
Top-level JSON:\par
\{\par
"TaskName": "DSPUpdater\\_ServiceAccounts",      // Optional; required for scheduling\par
"ListName": "ServiceAccounts",                 // Required\par
"Classes": \\["Users"],                          // One or more\par
"Filters": \\[\par
\{ "Attribute": "<attr>", "Operator": "<op>", "Value": \\<string|array|empty for -present> \}\par
],\par
"Logic": "AND",                                // "AND" | "OR" (default "AND")\par
"Scope": \{\par
// Choose exactly ONE:\par
"Domains": \\["d01.lab", "d02.d01.lab"],\par
// or:\par
// "SearchBases": \\[\par
//   \{ "Domain": "d01.lab",     "BaseDN": "OU=Service Accounts,DC=d01,DC=lab" \},\par
//   \{ "Domain": "d02.d01.lab", "BaseDN": "OU=Servers,DC=d02,DC=d01,DC=lab" \}\par
// ],\par
// Optional in v1.2:\par
"Exclude": \\[\par
\{ "Domain": "d01.lab",     "BaseDN": "OU=Disabled Users,DC=d01,DC=lab" \}\par
]\par
\},\par
"Schedule": \{\par
"Frequency": "Daily",                         // Free-form; use Daily/Weekly/Monthly in practice\par
"TimeUTC": "03:00"                            // 24h UTC HH\\:mm\par
\}\par
\}\par
\par
NOTES:\par
\bullet  `Scope` must specify **either** `Domains` **or** `SearchBases` (not both).\par
\bullet  `Scope.Exclude` is optional, supports multiple entries, each with `Domain` and `BaseDN`.\par
\bullet  `Schedule` is optional; if present, both `Frequency` and `TimeUTC` must exist.\par
\bullet  Policies must conform to v1.2 validation (tool fails fast with a clear error).\par
\par
6. FILTER OPERATORS (SUPPORTED IN v1.2)\par
\par
---\par
\par
Operators implemented by the current builder:\par
\par
\bullet  -eq         Equality                            \f3\u8594?\f2  (attr=value)\par
\f0\bullet  -ne         Not equal                           \f3\u8594?\f2  (!(attr=value))\par
\f0\bullet  -like       Wildcard match (\lquote *\rquote  only)           \f3\u8594?\f2  (attr=pattern)\par
\f0\bullet  -notlike    Negated wildcard                    \f3\u8594?\f2  (!(attr=pattern))\par
\f0\bullet  -startswith Prefix                              \f3\u8594?\f2  (attr=value*)\par
\f0\bullet  -endswith   Suffix                              \f3\u8594?\f2  (attr=*value)\par
\f0\bullet  -present    Attribute exists (value ignored)    \f3\u8594?\f2  (attr=*)\par
\f0\bullet  -in         Any of list (OR over equals)        \f3\u8594?\f2  (| (attr=v1)(attr=v2) \'85 )\par
\f0\bullet  -notin      Not in list                         \f3\u8594?\f2  (!(| (attr=v1)(attr=v2) \'85 ))\par
\par
Combination logic:\par
\f0\bullet  "AND" \f3\u8594?\f2  (& \'85 )\par
\f0\bullet  "OR"  \f3\u8594?\f2  (| \'85 )\par
\par
Value rules:\par
\f0\bullet  `-present` may have an empty string Value (`""`), or omit \emdash  both are accepted.\par
\bullet  `-in`/`-notin` accept an array or a single string (treated as 1-item list).\par
\bullet  For \ldblquote missing/empty\rdblquote  attributes, use `\{"Operator":"-notlike","Value":"*"\}`.\par
\par
Common attribute examples (non-exhaustive):\par
\bullet  Users: samAccountName, userPrincipalName, name, mail, department, title, description\par
\bullet  Groups: name, description, memberOf\par
\bullet  Computers: name, operatingSystem, description\par
\bullet  OUs: ou, name, description\par
\par
7. COMMON RECIPES (SAMPLE POLICIES INCLUDED)\par
\par
---\par
\par
All samples are in `Config\\` and ready to run/edit.\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_ServiceAccounts.json\par
Users with `sAMAccountName` like `svc_*`, scoped to Service Accounts OUs, excluding \ldblquote Disabled Users\rdblquote  OUs.\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_PrivilegedAccounts.json\par
Users whose `memberOf` is one of Domain/Enterprise Admins across domains (uses `-in` over full DNs).\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_RiskyComputers.json\par
Legacy OS + temp/test naming (`-like`, `-startswith`, `-endswith`, `-ne`), excludes Archive OUs.\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_RiskyGroups.json\par
Groups containing \ldblquote admin\rdblquote  with **no description** (`-notlike "*"`) as a hygiene check.\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_RiskyUsers.json\par
Guest/temp users: mail present, no phone, department not in HR/Finance/Legal (`-present`, `-notlike "*"`, `-notin`).\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_OUHygiene.json\par
OUs without description; excludes Archive and Disabled Users.\par
\par
\bullet  ExamplePolicy\\_AllOperatorsDemo.json\par
Synthetic policy exercising **every operator** to validate end-to-end parsing.\par
\par
8. USAGE DETAILS\par
\par
---\par
\par
Manual one-shot:\par
.\\DSPObjectListAutoUpdater.ps1 -Policy "<full path to your policy>.json"\par
\par
Scheduling:\par
\bullet  If the policy contains `TaskName` and `Schedule`, the tool will create/update the Scheduled Task.\par
\bullet  Task runs as SYSTEM, hidden, with the tool directory as working folder.\par
\par
DSP sync behavior:\par
\bullet  Current membership is compared to the AD snapshot by GUID.\par
\bullet  Plan: remove first, then add.\par
\bullet  Hard cap: **10,000** items per list. Excess adds are skipped and logged (first 50 listed).\par
\par
Artifacts:\par
\bullet  Logs\\Run\\_<RUNID>*<UTC>.log\par
\bullet  Results\\FullADResults**.json\par
\bullet  Snapshots\\Snapshot\\_*.json\par
\par
9. TROUBLESHOOTING\par
\par
---\par
\par
\bullet  \ldblquote Policy path not provided\'85\rdblquote\par
\endash  Pass `-Policy "<path>"` or place a `*.json` in the tool folder.\par
\par
\bullet  \ldblquote Invalid JSON / Each filter must have Attribute, Operator, and Value\rdblquote\par
\endash  Ensure valid JSON.\par
\endash  For `-present`, empty Value is allowed in v1.2.\par
\endash  `-in`/`-notin` must have at least one value.\par
\par
\bullet  \ldblquote AD module not found\rdblquote\par
\endash  Install RSAT ActiveDirectory, reopen PowerShell 5.1 elevated.\par
\par
\bullet  \ldblquote No results\rdblquote\par
\endash  Confirm filters and Scope.\par
\endash  Check if `Scope.Exclude` removes your expected OU.\par
\endash  Test LDAP directly with Get-ADObject.\par
\par
\bullet  \ldblquote Concurrent update blocked\rdblquote  from DSP\par
\endash  Handled automatically by backoff and adaptive chunking; re-run if repeated.\par
\par
\bullet  Scheduled Task exists but doesn\rquote t run\par
\endash  Check History and Last Run Result.\par
\endash  Run the same command manually as admin for comparison.\par
\par
10. VERSION NOTES (WHAT\rquote S NEW IN v1.2)\par
\par
---\par
\par
\bullet  Added **Scope.Exclude**: array of `\{ "Domain": "<fqdn>", "BaseDN": "<dn>" \}` blocks that are excluded from the effective scope.\par
\bullet  Expanded **filter operators**: now supports `-startswith`, `-endswith`, `-present`, `-in`, `-notin` in addition to `-eq`, `-ne`, `-like`, `-notlike`.\par
\bullet  Validator updated to allow `-present` with empty Value and to enforce sane list rules for `-in`/`-notin`.\par
\bullet  No changes to the post-query behavior: snapshot, DSP sync, and scheduling remain as in 1.1.\par
\par
## APPENDIX: QUICK POLICY TEMPLATES\par
\par
Service Accounts (prefix, exclude Disabled OU):\par
\{\par
"TaskName": "DSPUpdater\\_ServiceAccounts",\par
"ListName": "ServiceAccounts",\par
"Classes": \\["Users"],\par
"Filters": \\[\par
\{ "Attribute": "objectClass",    "Operator": "-eq",      "Value": "user" \},\par
\{ "Attribute": "sAMAccountName", "Operator": "-like",    "Value": "svc\\_\\*" \},\par
\{ "Attribute": "description",    "Operator": "-notlike", "Value": "*deprecated*" \}\par
],\par
"Logic": "AND",\par
"Scope": \{\par
"SearchBases": \\[\par
\{ "Domain": "d01.lab",       "BaseDN": "OU=Service Accounts,DC=d01,DC=lab" \}\par
],\par
"Exclude": \\[\par
\{ "Domain": "d01.lab",       "BaseDN": "OU=Disabled Users,DC=d01,DC=lab" \}\par
]\par
\},\par
"Schedule": \{ "Frequency": "Daily", "TimeUTC": "03:00" \}\par
\}\par
\par
Privileged Users (memberOf in set):\par
\{\par
"TaskName": "DSPUpdater\\_PrivilegedUsers",\par
"ListName": "PrivilegedUsers",\par
"Classes": \\["Users"],\par
"Filters": \\[\par
\{ "Attribute": "objectClass", "Operator": "-eq", "Value": "user" \},\par
\{ "Attribute": "memberOf",   "Operator": "-in", "Value": \\[\par
"CN=Domain Admins,CN=Users,DC=d01,DC=lab",\par
"CN=Enterprise Admins,CN=Users,DC=d01,DC=lab"\par
] \}\par
],\par
"Logic": "AND",\par
"Scope": \{ "Domains": \\[ "d01.lab" ] \},\par
"Schedule": \{ "Frequency": "Daily", "TimeUTC": "04:15" \}\par
\}\par
\par
OU Hygiene (no description):\par
\{\par
"TaskName": "DSPUpdater\\_OUHygiene",\par
"ListName": "OrganizationalUnits\\_NoDescription",\par
"Classes": \\["OrganizationalUnits"],\par
"Filters": \\[\par
\{ "Attribute": "objectClass", "Operator": "-eq",      "Value": "organizationalUnit" \},\par
\{ "Attribute": "description", "Operator": "-notlike", "Value": "\\*" \}\par
],\par
"Logic": "AND",\par
"Scope": \{\par
"Domains": \\[ "d01.lab" ],\par
"Exclude": \\[\par
\{ "Domain": "d01.lab", "BaseDN": "OU=Archive,DC=d01,DC=lab" \}\par
]\par
\},\par
"Schedule": \{ "Frequency": "Weekly", "TimeUTC": "01:30" \}\par
\}\par
\par
\emdash  End of v1.2 User Guide \emdash\lang9\par
}
 